# Portfolio-Allocation

This notebook focuses on asset selection in portfolio management, a major concern for many traders operating in financial markets. The primary objective of a financial portfolio is to maximize returns while minimizing risk, requiring a judicious allocation of assets. To achieve this, investors rely on existing theories, in particular the Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) introduced by Harry Markowitz in 1950.

TMP emphasizes asset selection with the aim of maximizing returns while minimizing risk. The importance of diversification, based on uncorrelated assets, is emphasized to mitigate the impact of market shocks. The Markowitz correlation matrix offers a static view of asset relationships, ignoring the future evolution of correlations between them. Faced with this constraint, we seek to introduce a dynamic perspective by taking into account the evolution of asset relationships over time, including spillover effects (the propagation of the event from one sector to another) and feedback effects (where the situation has repercussions on itself).

To answer our problem, we will first start by presenting our database containing 147 S&P500 assets that we have previously transformed into returns. Then, we will use the Granger causality statistical test to establish our adjacency matrix based on a threshold, which will help us establish the causal relationships between our assets. This matrix will then be used to calculate our clusters using graph theory, based on Giorgio Fagiolo's article entitled "Clustering in Complex Directed Networks," written in 2007. These steps will allow us to select the least systemic assets that will constitute our portfolio to invest. Finally, we will conclude with a purchase and resale simulation, thus evaluating the capacity of our model.
